
Every computer has a unique MAC Address for it's NIC. As you add more and more computers to a LAN, you end up with so many computers that get so many broadcast messages that it gets too difficult to maintain. Another problem is that MAC addresses don't inform us in any way that a group of computers belongs to the same LAN. 

In order to create bigger networks, we add a new type of addressing called `Logical Addressing`. The most dominantly used form of Logical addressing is called `IP Addressing`. An example IP address might be `31.44.17.231`. The idea of an IP address is that they are not fixed to a NIC, but can be dynamically assigned when a computer enters a network. All the computers in a given LAN will share the same subnet, which in the example given previously, might be `31.44.17`, but each final value will be unique for each computer on the network.

What if you have two different networks, one with the subnet of `31.44.17` and another with subnet `110.12.34`? The computers in either of these subnets can only communicate with computers within their subnet, meaning that a computer with IP `31.44.17.231` can talk to a computer with IP `31.44.17.243`, but not with a computer with the IP of `110.12.34.12`, which is in the `110.12.34` subnet. In order to allow for communication between computers on these two networks, we use a `Router`. Most routers that we are familiar with are used in your house, and those are typically not just Routers but also contain a Switch. Traditional Routers serve the purpose of connecting two networks together, whereas switches enable computers on the same network to communicate with each other. 

When a computer in one subnet wants to send data to a computer in another subnet, the computer will realize that the IP Address of the destination computer does not reside on it's network, and it will send the data to what is called the `Default Gateway`, which is the Router. The Router then strips away everything but the IP packet, and uses whats called a `Routing Table` to route the data to the correct network, or another router that know how to get it to the destination. 

## Port Numbers

Once data is received by the destination computer, how does the computer know what to do with it? This information is gleaned through the `Port Number` which is included in every IP packet. Each application that is running on a given computer has a designated port number, so that when the computer receives a packet it knows which application it belongs to. Each computer has 65,535 ports that it can use, but the first 1024 are considered `Well-known ports` and are reserved for certain types of applications. The ports 1025 through 65,535 however, can be used for whatever you wish. 